1. 
    - Biology
    - Software architecture
    - Engineering
    - Genetics
    - Bioengineneering

2. 
    Bioengineneering/Genetics
    "Recent applications, future perspectives, and limitations of the CRISPR-Cas system" (published in Molecular Therapy: Nucleic Acids, 2025)

    - CRISPR-Cas 9 functions as a programmable RNA protein that introduces a double strand
      breaks in DNA. These breaks are typically repaired by two cellular pathways
      Non-homologous End joining (proteins grab the broken strand and shoves them together) or Homology-Directed Repair(More precise DNA repair).
      The applications for this sort of technology is in disease modeling, drug screening, therapeutic interventions, drug screening (resistance of targets), autoimmune among others.
      The limitations of using this technology are off target activity, or cutting DNA of unintended targets (therefore introducing genomic instability which can possibly lead to cancer),
      Editing efficiency, delivery constraints(guiding to specific targets), immunogenicity (the edited cell being attacked by the immune system because of the bacteria protein the tool is
      made from or the delivery system can be attacked as well).
      The article concludes with technologies for gene editing that derived from Cas9 or alternatives such as 
      Base editing, Prime editing, High fidelity variants of Cas9 and improved delivery sysytem using viral or lipid particles. This is a summary of how
      This is a summary of how biological component(enzymes) is being used in the field of genetics by engineering genes or structuring them in a certain way. In 
      otherwords, bioengineneering.
    
    
    - Tower Semiconductor Press Release: "Tower Semiconductor Teams with NVIDIA to Advance AI Infrastructure" (February 5, 2026)
      This press release details how the limitations of current technology is causing issues for the development of next generation technologies.
      AI in this case. Particularly, the issue is in regards to the behavior of materials  transfer transfer  data at long distances--using conductors.
      So an alternative being proposed is using Sillicon photonics, which is a light based communication technology. This proposal will reduce power consumption while increasing 
      bandwidth for AI. In otherwords, engineering an alternative architecture to the current Infrastructure of how AI data centers consume and transmit data using energy. 
    
    - "MUTE-Seq: An Ultrasensitive Method for Detecting Low-Frequency Mutations" Advanced Materials, November 27, 2025 
      In this paper, several scientific and computational desciplines were applied  in order to 
      detect residual cancer cells at a higher precision. Cancer cells that have a low frequecy, about 0.01 percent of the total cells both healthy and mutated, were difficult to detect
      because past machine learning models had an error rate of about 0.01 percent, the would mean that it would not be detected. This paper explains how that error rate has dropped to about 0.005 percent. 
      Less than the  error rate of detecting a cancer cell. This was achieved by destroying healthy cells in a sample in order to isoalte the signal of a cancer cell. Healthy cells
      have their own signals and would be therefore overlap there's with the mutated cell, so getting rid of their signal is necessary. This paper displayes how modern scientic tools and methods
      are being used to better detect cancer. 
      
3.
    Topic 3.
    Build a tool that simulates patients blood strean and evaluates how well different de-noising algorithms can detect cancer signals at low frequencies.

    Dictionaries and Lists: Key: Gene names, Values: frequency value
    
    Functions: generate_blood_draw(profile, volume_ml): A function that uses np.random.poisson to simulate "drawing" DNA fragments based on the concentration in the profile.
                add_sequencing_noise(data, error_rate): A function that adds random "glitches" (noise) to the simulated data using loops and conditionals.

    Loops: Use loops to run "Monte Carlo" simulations—running 10,000 virtual blood draws to see how often the cancer is missed (False Negative Rate).

    numPy & sciPy: use these libraries to calculate the Signal-to-Noise Ratio and the Limit of Detection for your simulated machine.

    Matplotlib: plot curves. For example, a plot showing how your ability to detect cancer increases as you increase the number of genes you monitor.

    Github: Build a feature-noise-model branch to experiment with different types of noise without breaking the main simulation.


4. One project ("dream") would be writing a machine learning program that uses the mentioned the above  with actual data and drop the error rate by about 5 to 6 decimal places, 
   which would also include other skills sets, not just computation and physics.

   Second project would be a small scale of this (without machine learning), using data or generated data.

   
   